---
layout: post
title:  "Introduction to The Practical Developer"
subtitle: "Some guidelines, opinions and hopes for the future."
permalink: /welcome
date: 2020-01-01 13:00:00 -0300
tags: [Announcement]
author: Juan Francisco Marino
reading: 5
image: /assets/2019-12-30-example/Marketing-and-Advertising-1.jpg
---
If you're reading this, then welcome to **The Practical Developer**.
This is the first post of the entire blog, so your visit means a lot 😄. We're at
the dawn of a new decade, I hope this new year finds you well, and ends better than
it starts. I wanted to start the blog by laying out some guidelines as to what you 
can expect from it in terms of topics, publishing frequency, etc.
<!--more-->
 
### Topics

First, let's talk about the topics you'll see in this blog, since that's probably
what you're most interested about. This blog is going to be pretty broad in that sense,
at least in the beginning. This won't be a Javascript, Java or Golang blog. I don't
want to box The Practical Developer in a particular technology, framework or platform,
due mostly to selfish reasons. I started this blog as an outlet to help me think, practice
and structure my thoughts when I work on side projects. As such, limiting the scope of this
blog to a particular tech will also limit what I can work on, or I'll have to only write
about things that are _allowed_, which kind of defeats the purpose, so I'd rather keep 
the scope loose.

That being said, I don't want this to be a misc blog either. I think it is important to have
some semblance of a boundary, so that you (the readers) can follow a coherent series
of content. Also, it allows me to delve deeper into the topics that we do cover, which
should result in better content all around, and that is my main goal.

So... **what content do we cover?** The main topics for this blog will be 
**Architecture** and **Software Design**, and the basic premise will be the following:

> Content that gives developers, tech leads and architects practical examples and
solutions to common development problems in modern tech companies.

However, the posts themselves won't really be
about discussing architectural patterns, but rather, Architecture will be the overarching
topic that links different posts together. So, for example, you may see a post series that
discuss how to implement authentication over and event-driven architecture. The posts 
themselves will revolve around coding, and perhaps, in some cases, some infrastructure if
considered relevant to the content.

### Frequency

The other question that I wanted to answer with this initial post is: How often can readers
expect new content? Well, the truth is, I don't know. Since this is meant to be about side projects
its very hard to commit to a particular schedule of releases for this. What I can promise is
this: **Content will be released when its ready and the quality is on par with my expectations**.

On that note, I'll be working on setting up an email list for people to subscribe if you'd like
to, so you can receive a notification when new content gets uploaded. More on that soon.

### Upcoming content & Closing thoughts

Ok, now that we have the formalities out of the way, stay tuned for some of the early content
releases coming in the next few days. The first set of articles will be a series on 
**Building a document processing system** where we'll explore how to set up a REST API to
handle document uploads and reads using S3 as a storage layer, and later connecting that through
events to an ML pipeline that will allow us to run models over the documents.

That's it for now! thanks a lot for reading through this opening post and I hope you return
for more soon.
